Hello welcome back to the course on statistics.
Today we're continuing our journey into the world of hypothesis testing and we're adding on a new version
of hypothesis testing for portion testing.
So let's have a look.
A new business challenge again according to a 2016 survey.
A staggering 58 percent of American households have tablets.
Your manager has asked you to test the hypothesis of a 97 percent significance level that only 58 percent
of American homes have tablet devices.
You surveyed 100 random household and found that 73 of them had tablets.
So what have we got going on here.
Well the first thing is of course the challenge.
This is a real statistic.
So it's about 58 percent.
If you look at different sources it's around there.
I did add though the staggering part of American households because it just makes it sound really cool
that's back in 2016 people thought that that was a lot.
Probably that's more by now especially by the time you are watching these tutorials.
If it's further down the track and your manager has already already had a feel for that he already had
a feeling that is probably greater than that.
And so he asked you to go out and test this hypothesis and the whole concept here is pretty cool in
itself.
Even without having to report to a manager or working for a business you can just take any statistics
on the Internet that you're interested in and you can check if it's changed.
All you have to do as you'll see from the down.
You just have to survey like 100 random samples or maybe less depending on how you construct your test
and based on what we're going to discuss.
You're going to know better how to construct these tests and you can check without having to wait for
another year before New results are released and so on you can check if it's true or not.
So you might be interested in a different statistic.
You can approach it with the same methodology and then just for yourself with your small random sample
of 100 people or households or whatever it is find out what's the real situation in the world is if
it's increasing or decreasing and things like that.
All right.
So let's get started on the hypothesis.
We have sustained our null hypothesis the hypothesis first.
So no hypothesis is that 58 percent or fewer homes households have tablas.
So P is less than 50 percent and P is the new thing that we're working with is that proportion.
So as you can see here Brucey would you.
We work with means so so many hours or so many dollars and so on.
But here is actually a proportion so what proportion of your population says does something or doesn't
do something in this case.
What proportion of question has tablets.
What proportion of the households have tablets and tablets by tablets we mean like tablet devices such
as iPads and so on.
And yes so but other than that is going to be very similar.
The only thing is just keep in mind that we now are going to have to let her Ps that Eleanor P for the
proportion of p for the p value and are two separate piece.
And your alternative hypothesis is that more than 58 percent of households have tablets and you can
tell that we want to look at more is because it says only 58 percent so meaning that anything to the
left is kind of like expected.
You already have prior knowledge that number of tablets is probably going to go only going to grow and
therefore you just want to check if it has grown or not.
And so as usual which is going to draw or distribution or we hear the some new things are going to happen
or we have to take into account some new things for a proportion test as opposed to just a standard
hypothesis test with means.
So here what we are going to have is first of all we need to do two checks.
Very important.
We need to check that and times p hat is greater than 10.
I'd rather be had.
So p as your population parameter for the proportion so what's the real situation in your population.
The hat is what you measured.
In our case we had to 73 divided by 100 so that's 70 percent.
And what this is saying is that 73 percent times the number of people in your population should be greater
than 10 so 73 percent times 100 is 73 should be granted and that is correct.
So basically it means that logis of ledges are the next one you know will make sense so here we're saying
Q Is one minus be so that percentage of people that don't have tablets in their homes and that should
also be greater than 10.
And so one minus P is zero point twenty seven twenty seven hundred point twenty seven and the heart
is 27.
So this is also correct as are both of these are saying just that in your sample or the number of observations
that said yes.
And the number of observations that said no they both have to be greater than 10.
So in this case asked to be more than 10 households who which do have tablets and more than 10 households
which don't have tablet so that's important condition that you always have to check before doing a proportional
test.
It just it does not meant that just means you need to increase your sample size until that is met.
Very straightforward.
And we have some new formulas which we need to take into account.
So the mean of the population is actually equal to P and the standard of the population is equal to
the square root of P-Q.
Now we're not going to derive these formulas here.
I might include historial in the course later on to derive these formulas but I don't really think it's
necessary as long as we know that these formulas are like that that this is what we need to use and
we then can apply them in practice.
But other than that maybe we'll talk about them sometime in the future.
For now let's just go ahead and apply these formulas.
All right.
So that's going to be our.
I mean is it just equals Tupi that's how proportionate testing works and send division is equal to square
root of P-Q.
Here you can see the sampling distribution.
So that's where you see the mean of p hat and stand version of jihad.
And just as we did with the sampling distribution of means this is a sample sampling distribution of
proportions.
So basically we're taking lots and lots of samples from our population and in each of those samples
instead of kallikrein I mean we're now calculating the proportion and the central limit theorem tells
us that this is how the proportions will be distributed.
They'll be distributed normally around this mean p hat.
So this is a distribution center.
Remember how we had eggs bars inside the distribution.
This is a distribution of people.
So all of the possible samples of size 100 that you could possibly take from your population and then
look at those proportions in those samples.
This is how they will be distributed.
And now let's proceed to our calculation so I just left all the necessary things at the top to make
some space.
And our calculations are very very similar to what we had previously inside hypothesis testing for means.
So we had this myu is equal to myu the of the population and is equal to P..
In our new formula is equal to zero point fifty eight.
That same thing that's from the central limit theorem then a sigma or some is equal to the square root
of pusillus calculate that.
And remember here we need to take the population parameters of 58 percent that we are assuming is correct.
So we're living in this universe.
We think that this is correct so we can take 58 percent times one minus 58 percent is 42.
He was a square root of zero point forty nine.
Then we take the standard deviation of the sampling distribution and according to the central theorem.
Same thing as before.
Sigma divide by square root of an serpent and I divide by skirt of 100 which is 10.
And so zero point zero for the night.
And then we've got pea hat which is zero point 73.
That's we calculate that 73 divide by 100.
So just based on this I'm just curious.
Remember we talked about developing a gut feel for the physical significance.
And so before we start proceeding with their next steps from here what do you feel like.
What do you feel that this is going to.
This hypothesis is true.
Or do you feel that it's not true.
So let's just go through this.
We know that previously it was 58 percent of people who have tablets in their homes.
You found that 73 percent out of 173 people out of 173 households out of 100 have tablets and mobile
phones tablets.
So what does it feel like.
Does it feel like too much or does it feel like you could have randomly sampled a hundred households
and it's it's fair that with a quite a high likelihood you could have gotten 73 percent 73 households
that do have mobile tablets.
So what does it feel like.
Does it feel OK or does it feel a bit suspicious.
If you couldn't tell right away like after we've done these calculations what does it feel like now
you already know that now you know a bit more from these calculations.
You know that's OK so the sound thinking of this distribution assemblage you have 58 percent here in
the middle and your PC or your standard deviation is zero point zero or 49.
So it's quite narrow.
It's like like that and the you pick the hat is zero point seventy three.
So it's somewhere here.
So this is Troy.
What impression does that give you now.
Do you does it feel like too much or OK silica.
Well now we can even though we are full Follett's yet calculating Nozette score we can estimate where
this will be.
We know that's standard deviation is about 0.7 49 so it's it's less than 0.05.
And the question is how many jobs will it take from here to here in 0.05 terms so from zero from here
one 0.05 jump will take us to six point zero up to about 62 or zero point let's say 62.
In percentage terms it's 63 percent and other jump.
So another sound deviation will take us to sixty eight percent and another jump will only take us to
73 percent so this is sitting at around three standard deviations away one to three.
And as we are in you know ninety five percent ninety five point four percent of our observations fall
into two standard deviations and into three standard deviations we have to have ninety nine point seven
observations of these.
The hats fall into ninety nine point seven so basically are doing the score calculation.
We already found out what we kind of did it in our mind here but what is this is saying is that ninety
nine point seven percent of the time you'd run this experiment.
You would not get this p hat getting this p hat is very similar to what we discussed before about the
coin that it takes six goes six flips of a coin to get six times in a row tails when you have a coin.
It's only like a 1 percent chance.
Same thing here it is only like a 1 percent chance.
So let's just do the calculations to concrete this and so there is that score P minus knew he had to
by Sigma.
He had to calculate that.
So plugging plugging in this this value minus this values of the distance divide by zero point zero
for nine basically.
Same thing as we did in our mind.
It's just three point 0 six a bit higher than three.
And so now if we calculate the score.
So let's really we don't calculate we just look at the table and we find that table we're here.
So if we now calculate three point or six and it's important to remember it's always the whole area
on the left so from here to the left so you will have to subtract something from that.
Well one we need we need the area in the right so we just have one minus whatever we get.
So 3.0 6 3 0 0 0 6 there is so nine nine eight nine.
So let's have a look.
B minus one point minus one month zero point nine hundred nine zero point alone.
And so this is not 11 percent.
This is zero point eleven percent.
So the result is zero point 0 0 1 1.
And then if you turn the percentage Zero Point percent so it's less than 1 percent.
Sometimes this can be a bit confusing when you go from here to percentages and then you might think
slopes is actually 0.1 percent.
And so as we discuss remember that example of the coin toss.
There's only a 1 percent chance to get six tails in a row.
Well this is even less than that.
This is like getting like eight like nine tails nine times you flip a coin and you get tails.
Every single time.
So there is even less than what we had before and you know like in your experience how often would you
get nine tails in a row.
Very low and likely So that's why this is a very unlikely hypothesis very unlikely a universe that we
live in that we know that these things are distributed like that from the Central in a theorem and we
still managed to pick out 73 homes households with or a hundred households are which 73 of them had
tablets.
So therefore this is just like in our universe it's very unlikely close to impossible as zero point
to learn.
Percent chance of that happening and it's definitely less than 3 percent chance because we were asked
to test a hypothesis were 97 percent significance level so it's definitely less than 3 percent.
So therefore with a 97 percent degree confidence we can reject the null hypothesis and accept the alternative
hypothesis.
In fact as you can see from here we can even reject the null hypothesis with a 99 percent confidence
with ninety nine point eighty nine percent confidence a very high degree of confidence.
But since we are asked to do the 97 percent we're doing 97 percent.
And by the way since you have this alpha you can take that approach with the rejection region if you'd
like to.
There might be some good practice to look up 97 percent in the P-value table and then calculate the
zid critical and do this same problem.
But through the approach of our rejection regions.
So there we go I hope that that was useful and I'm glad we had a chance to go through the intuition
behind things so that you kind of can see how to think about these things intuitively and as you can
see even just by selecting 100 only 100 random household not thousands not tens of thousands would just
100.
We can get such strong results like.
Ninety seven percent significance level.
Well partially it is attributed to the fact that it's changed so much from 58 percent to 73 percent
if it was like if you say 100 million households and you only got 61 percent then this would be different
because this would be this would be the same this would be the same.
This would be different so this would be less 0.60.
And this would be less so and this would be much smaller so it wouldn't be three points or six would
be much smaller and therefore you wouldn't get that so good.
Another good exercise for you if you like is to just kind of experiment and or do like reverse engineered
this problem and find out at which level what number you would have to have here for this to be exactly
3 percent.
So at what level if you found how many households do have tablets out of 100 would not be able to reject
an all hypothesis.
That's a good exercise as well to help you understand when you reverse engineer a mathematical problem
like this.
You kind of like creating it yourself.
You better understand what's going on in the background so it's a it's a great opportunity for you to
practice feel like.
So what number has to be here instead of 73 for this percentage to be exactly 3 percent.
And on that note I hope you enjoy today sectorial and I look for you next time.
Until then happy analyzing.